[MUSIC]
Hi, in this lecture, we will study
hyperparameter optimization process and
talk about hyperparameters in
specific libraries and models.
We will first discuss
hyperparameter tuning in general.
General pipeline, ways to tuning
hyperparameters, and what it actually
means to understand how a particular
hyperparameter influences the model.
It is actually what we will
discuss in this video, and
then we will talk about libraries and
frameworks, and
see how to tune hyperparameters
of several types of models.
Namely, we will first
study tree-based models,
gradient boosting decision trees and
RandomForest.
Then I'll review important
hyperparameters in neural nets.
And finally, we will talk about
linear models, where to find them and
how to tune them.
Another class of interesting
models is factorization machines.
We will not discuss factorization
machines in this lecture,
but I suggest you to read
about them on the internet.
So, let's start with a general
discussion of a model tuning process.
What are the most important things to
understand when tuning hyperparameters?
First, there are tons of potential
parameters to tune in every model.
And so we need to realize which
parameters are affect the model most.
Of course,
all the parameters are reliable,
but we kind of need to select
the most important ones.
Anyway we never have time to tune
all the params, that's right.
So we need to come up with a nice
subset of parameters to tune.
Suppose we're new to xgboost and
we're trying to find out what
parameters will better to tune, and
say we don't even understand how
gradient boosting decision tree works.
We always can search what parameters
people usually set when using xgboost.
It's quite easy to look up, right?
For example, at GitHub or Kaggle Kernels.
Finally, the documentation sometimes
explicitly states which parameter
to tune first.
From the selected set of parameters
we should then understand
what would happen if we
change one of the parameters?
How the training process and the training
invalidation course will change if we,
for example,
increased a certain parameter?
And finally, actually tune
the selected parameters, right?
Most people do it manually.
Just run, examine the logs,
change parameters,
run again and
iterate till good parameters found.
It is also possible to use
hyperparameter optimization
tools like hyperopt, but it's usually
faster to do it manually to be true.
So later in this video, actually discuss
the most important parameters for
some models along with some intuition how
to tune those parameters of those models.
But before we start, I actually want
to give you a list of libraries
that you can use for
automatic hyperparameter tuning.
There are lots of them actually, and
I didn't try everything from this list
myself, but from what I actually tried,
I did not notice much
difference in optimization speed on
real tasks between the libraries.
But if you have time,
you can try every library and compare.
From a user side these
libraries are very easy to use.
We need first to define the function
that will run our module,
in this case, it is XGBoost.
That will run our module with
the given set of parameters and
return a resulting validation score.
And second,
we need to specify a source space.
The range for the hyperparameters where
we want to look for the solution.
For example, here we see that a parameter,
it is fix 0.1.
And we think that optimal max depth
is somewhere between 10 and 30.
And actually that is it,
we are ready to run hyperopt.
It can take much time, so
the best strategy is to run it overnight.
And also please note that everything
we need to know about hyperparameter's,
in this case,
is an adequate range for the search.
That's pretty convenient,
if you don't know the new model and
you just try to run.
But still,
most people tuned the models manually.
So, what exactly does it
mean to understand how
parameter influences the model?
Broadly speaking,
different values of parameters result
in three different fitting behavior.
First, a model can underfit.
That is, it is so constrained that
it cannot even learn the train set.
Another possibility is that
the model is so powerful that
it just overfits to the train set and
is not able to generalize it all.
And finally,
the third behavior is something
that we are actually looking for.
It's somewhere between underfitting and
overfitting.
So basically, what we should examine
while turning parameters is that
we should try to understand if the model
is currently underfitting or overfitting.
And then, we should somehow
adjust the parameters to get
closer to desired behavior.
We need to kind of split all the
parameters that we would like to tune into
two groups.
In the first group, we'll have
the parameters that constrain the model.
So if we increase
the parameter from that group,
the model would change its behaviour
from overfitting to underfitting.
The larger the value of the parameter,
the heavier the constraint.
In the following videos, we'll color such
parameters in red, and the parameters
in the second group are doing an opposite
thing to our training process.
The higher the value,
more powerful the main module.
And so by increasing such parameters,
we can change fitting behavior
from underfitting to overfitting.
We will use green color for
such parameters.
So, in this video we'll be discussing some
general aspects of
hyperparameter organization.
Most importantly,
we've defined the color coding.
If you did not understand
what color stands for
what, please watch a part of
the video about it again.
We'll use this color coding
throughout the following videos.
[MUSIC]